.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.TH SESSIONINSTALLER 1 "December 2009" Linux "User manual"
.SH NAME
session-installer \- allows applications to easily install and remove software
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B session-installer
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Session-installer
allows applications to easily install additional software (e.g. extensions or
GSreamer codecs), uninstall files and perform simple package status queries by 
calling a distribution neutral D-Bus interface.

The whole process of confirmation, error reporting and progress notification 
is handled by sessioninstaller. Currently it comes only with a GTK based user 
interface.

The D-Bus interface is developed under the PackageKit umbrella and is available
on the session bus. The reference implementation can be found in 
gnome-packagekit. It was also adopted by KPackageKit.

In contrast to gnome-packagekit and KPackageKit it doesn't use the PackageKit 
daemon for querying and installation, but instead makes use of APT and 
aptdaemon directly (alternatively synaptic can be used).

Normally it is not required to start this programme manually since it makes
use of D-Bus activation and will be started on request automatically.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP SESSIONINSTALLER_BACKEND
Set the package manager which should be used for installation.
Possible values are 
.IR aptdaemon ", " synaptic " and " dummy .
.SH HOMEPAGE
https://launchpad.net/sessioninstaller
.SH BUGS
You can report bugs at the Launchpad site of aptdaemon:
https://bugs.launchpad.net/sessioninstaller/+filebug
.SH AUTHOR
Sebastian Heinlein <devel at glatzor dot de>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR aptd(1)
.B http://www.packagekit.org/pk-faq.html#session-methods
